OK, so in this video, we're going to introduce the functionality that allows us, allows our users
to upload a profile image.
OK, so we're going to start off with the functionality in the view model.
OK, so here down below, I'm going to create a new function.
OK.
Something called fun upload image.
Now keep in mind, this needs to be a bit generic because we want to be able to upload both user profile
images and post images.
OK, so we want to upload the bus now.
Upload image is going to take a you are eye of type.
You are right and and on success.
Lambda, that takes a new try and returns the units.
OK.
Let me import the you are all right, and that's it.
All right, so in-progress is going to be the value is going to be true.
Now we're going to have valid storage.
Ref is going to be storage.
Don't reference.
Now, keep in mind that storage is fire based storage, which is the place where we can store images
in Firebase.
And the reason we need the reference is we need to give our name, our image a particular name.
I'm going to have Val you uid equals uuid dot random you I.D. Val image ref is going to be storage ref.
Storage, I call it red, that should be rough.
OK, storage, ref, dot child, here I have images, which is kind of the folder where we're going
to store our image $ UUID.
OK, so the image name is going to be our UUID and the reference is going to be where we actually stored
that information.
We're going to have Val upload task equals image ref, dot put file.
You are right.
OK, and we can start to add listeners to this, upload the Tusk, so upload tasks that add on success.
And then we're going to have add on Savior.
OK, now for the success we're going to have vowel result equals it's dot metadata.
Question mark, thought reference question mark because it's reliable download.
You are out.
OK, so we have our download URL.
If we have a successful task, then result.
Dot add on success listener.
And here we can pass the on success.
So basically what we're doing here is we're allowing whoever calls this function to decide what they
do after we receive the download URL.
OK, we want that to be for us.
In this particular case, we want to store that you URL in the user information.
But when we upload a post, for example, we want to store that URL in the post information.
OK, so that allows us to do that.
And then on, say, the listener, we can simply handle some exception.
Let's give it a name.
See?
So our exception and.
That's fine, we don't need to provide another message and we can set in progress dot value equals false.
Now here we can use this upload image in our upload.
Profile.
Image two things I forgot to do, so first of all, I want to make this as private because this is kind
of internal logic.
Profile image And here I have set the in-progress value to true.
I have made it false if we have an exception.
But if we are successful, the operation is not yet completed.
OK, so we're going to leave it as as true because the upload profile image will handle that later on.
OK, so here we are, just getting a you are f type.
You are right and we are calling upload image with our you are AI and we're providing a on success.
So in all success, it's quite simple.
We're simply going to call, create or update profile, and we're only going to pass our image URL as
it does to string.
OK, so very, very simple, since we already have the functionality for create our update profile,
we can call that with only the image URL to update that in the backend API.
So with that, we need to go now to our profile screen and implement the image functionality.
So right at the bottom here somewhere, I'm going to add another composable font profile image that
takes a few parameters.
So image you are out of type string Lolabelle and a view model of the type Instagram View model.
OK, now I'm going to have a box that will contain my information, so I have a modifier equals modifier
dot height.
And I'm going to call this intrinsic size dot men.
The reason I want to do that is because I want to have some height even when the image does not yet
exist, when it's loading.
OK, so that is there for that reason.
Now here inside the box, I want to have two things.
First of all, I want to have a column.
OK, and then I'm going to have a valve is loading equals VM Dot in progress, dot value.
And then if it's loading, obviously I want to display a common progress spinner.
OK, so that is the spin there, while the image is loading now, let's work a bit on the columns here.
I want to have basically a rounded image and a text that says something like Change your profile image
here.
So I'm going to add a modifier equals modifier dot padding of eight dpi.
I'm going to have Phil Max width.
And I'm going to make it clickable.
And in the clickable, we're going to fill out, fill this out a bit later because we need to do something
a bit special here.
We want to be able to launch the camera function in our Android device so that we can select an existing
image.
OK, now clickable, and then let's not forget.
To add, the horizontal alignment equals alignment dots centre horizontally.
Now inside this column, I'm going to have a card.
That has a shape equals circular shape.
OK.
Then I have a modifier equals modifier dot padding of eight deep and size of 100 dpi.
OK, and inside here I will simply have a common image with my data equals image you earl and down below
the card.
I'm going to have a text that says, Change your profile.
Change profile.
Picture.
OK, I want to just quickly run this to make sure that our UI is set up correctly.
And then once that is done, I want to implement this functionality for on Click Here, which is basically
going to tie up our UI with the VM functionality.
So clicking on profile.
Oh, right.
I don't actually call this profile image, so I'm going to go up here instead of my column.
I'm going to say profile.
Image.
OK, I'm here, I'm going to pass the image URL.
And the VM.
The image URL can be retrieved from the VM, so I'm going to say.
Image URL equals VM dot user data dot value dot image URL.
With a question mark for value.
So I think that should be fine.
Let's go ahead and run the code again.
And we should see the updated UI for the image here.
And it profile.
And then we have the image now, remember that I have already set the image here, so that is a good
sign that we already have the image for our user.
But if we click on it, nothing happens, even though it says change profile picture.
So to update that, we're going to simply create a launcher.
OK, so at the top here inside profile image, I'm going to have Val Launcher.
Equals, remember, launcher for activity results.
The contract is activity.
Result contracts dot.
Get content.
OK.
This is a function, and on results, I have some functionality.
Now, for the on result, I can actually extract that outside my function.
Call, so I'm going to pass it here, OK?
And this will give me a you are eye of type, you are I.
OK, and with this, you are right, it's quite simple, we can say you are, I question mark thought,
let's so if it's not, no, we will simply call VM Dot update, profile image and profile data.
No, it should be profile image.
What did we call it, upload profile image?
Yes, upload.
Profile image there it is, upload profile image with our you are right.
And we need to call this launcher, of course.
So here in the image, click in the box clickable.
We're going to have our launcher.
Dot launch.
And here we need to retrieve types of data image for slash star.
So any type of image needs to be retrieved with this launcher.
So that's pretty much it.
The launcher will basically retrieve an image from the device for us.
We'll call upload image with the you are right.
The upload image will basically call this upload image function, which will store the image in the
Firebase storage.
And then we'll call, create or update profile, which will update our profile and then set our data
here.
User data again.
And then once that is set, the profile will refresh and we will get the new information.
So let's hope that we haven't made any mistake.
It should be fine.
Let's go ahead and test our application.
All right, so click on profile.
Now we have the image, now let's go click here and you can see that it has opened the image for us.
And let me select this image, for instance, select uploading.
Once that is done, I'm going to go back to profile.
It takes a while for me to upload for some reason.
OK, so it seems I have made a small mistake.
I have a little bug in code after some debugging, I found that here in upload image instead of add
on success listener with curly brackets, I need a function call.
Off on success.
OK, so I think that should solve the problem.
Let's go ahead and run the code again, and hopefully this time it works because I do see that the image
is uploaded to Firebase Storage, but not updated in the user profile, so that will likely solve the
problem.
OK, let's upload an image.
There's a spinner.
So hopefully once that is uploaded, then no more issues after that.
There we go.
So update that up got up there and the image got updated as well.
Keep in mind for this.
We don't need to save because the image is already updated.
So if we go back here, we will see the new image appear here as well.
So that's all for this video uploading user information.
And actually, that's quite an important piece of functionality because we will use it when we will
upload post images as well.